So we've done a lot with useState.
Now one of the things that we
might wanna look at is reducers.
And this is one of the places where I
do think that TypeScript kinda shines.
One of the criticisms levied on Redux, and
this is not necessarily
true as much anymore and
also true of some of
the useReducer stuff in React,
is I think that the reducer pattern
is incredibly powerful, right?
Use state is useful for like, yeah,
I wanna figure out that answer so
that Avengers quiz is toggled or not.
Yeah, useState is good for
little stuff like that.
But if you find yourself putting
seven useStates in a component,
it's probably time to rethink
your approach a little bit.
useReducer is definitely helpful and
Redux,
someway we're gonna tell
how it applies to both.
useReducer is super helpful for
more complicated state management.
Where you might have multiple things and
you're like, okay,
based on three different properties,
I want to determine the third one.
And that's where it can become
super helpful, but there's a lot of
ceremony that we do in reducers to
basically protect us from ourselves.
A lot of times you'll see action
types are usually strings, but
other times we'll assign
them to constants.
That way, if we mess up spelling
one of the action types,
it doesn't fall through
our conditional somewhere.
A lot of times it's like either you
misspelled the action type as you
dispatched the action or
you misspelled it in the reducer, and
all of your conditionals, or your case
statement, it falls through all of them,
and nothing happens, and
there's no error message.
And you're like, I don't know what to do.
And this is an area where I think that
TypeScript definitely begins to help us.
All right, so
here's another example application.
This one is a pizza calculator, the Jock.
But when I used to work at a coding
bootcamp where we did meetups and
stuff like that, it took a bunch
of smart people way too long to
figure out how many pizzas
we should order, right?
So we'd literally made a silly app
where you put in the number of people,
how many slices of pizza you
think they're going to eat, and
you would get the right number of buys.
This application is ultimately not
successful because we ordered from
the pizza place so much that they
started throwing in free pizzas so
that eventually we had a feature request
to add like a guess on how many free
pizzas that we're gonna throw in and
so on so forth.
But generally speaking,
this is an app that we use.
So here you can see number of people,
okay, there should be eight people.
They're gonna each eat 13 slices of pizza,
13 people, 13 slices of pizza.
Another feature request that came
up was how many slices per pie.
But anyway, it works.
Now, I've cheated a little bit.
If you look closely at the reducer,
it's just any all over the place.
We've done a little bit of type scripting,
and
I will talk about some
of the stuff we did.
But then we're gonna add some type safety,
and we're gonna see some of the kinda cool
stuff that we get for
free as we go along here.
But let's take a tour of
the code as it stands first.
Give myself a little bit more room here.
All right, a PizzaData.
Nothing special about that.
It's number of people,
slices per person, slice of a pie.
PizzaState, well,
this is interesting, right?
Cuz really, there's a fourth PizzaState.
There's three input fields.
But there's a fourth piece, which is,
what is the total number of pizzas?
Here, you can see we're gonna
use this intersection here,
which is we're gonna say, cool.
What I wanna do is I
wanna take my PizzaData.
And I also wanna combine it
with this other type, right?
And this is our first kind of
foray in kind of determining types
based on other types,
programmability around our type system.
So PizzaState is simply going to
be everything in PizzaData plus
one more field, which is the number
of pizzas needed in number.
And this is super useful because if we
change something about the PizzaData,
our PizzaState type would
inherit that in this case
cuz it's a combination
of those two objects.
calculatePizzasNeeded is a very
proprietary formula that multiplies number
of people time slices per person divided
by the size of the pie and rounds up,
because you cannot order
two-thirds of a pizza.
So it rounds up to the nearest pizza.
And this is just a helper function that
I'll use my reducer to update the object.
Our initial state,
which is gonna be of the type PizzaState.
The nice part is if you kinda
like messed up a field here,
anything along those lines,
you'd have an undefined field.
You have an extra field, you'd gonna get
unexpected behavior in your reducer.
Here we've got the reducer, we will
get some of the benefits when I begin
typing it, right now might as well be
JavaScript, but we've got the actions to
UPDATE_NUMBER_OF_PEOPLE,
UPDATE_SLICES_PER_PERSON.
Anytime one of these input fields change,
basically recalculate the number of
pieces we need based on the new data.
And then finally, the end result.
We have got a bunch of anies
here in the calculator,
we're gonna have to handle all
of that momentarily as well.
And then we've got kind of
the highest level here.
So we got useReducer.
And right now, it is of the type of any,
and you can dispatch anything.
And what's gonna happen is,
as we add some more typing to this,
we're gonna see how TypeScript begins
to help us from common mistakes that
we will all like to admit were less
common than they really are, right?
But little mistakes that in the course
of my day to day, I make all the time.
So if we go ahead and
look at our reducer, right, and
this is kinda where it
becomes somewhat interesting.
I can go ahead, I can change,
we have a type around our PizzaState.
So I can go ahead,
I can say PizzaState in this case, right?
And the interesting part is all I said for
this reducer function is
that the state argument,
the function is going to expect that it is
going to get PizzaState passed into it.
If I go back down to application,
you can see that TypeScript has already
figured out that even the initial
value of state in this case is
going to be a PizzaState, right?
In some version, it's evens like, if
the reducer always takes this argument and
it's gonna either return some version
of it or the state again, if none of
the action types hit, then I know
the state is going to be a PizzaState.
And it has already figured out the type
of the state of our component, right?
And so you see PizzaState is
a reducer that takes a pizza state.
So I've got an action, we haven't figured
that out yet, and returns a PizzaState.
And initial state fits
in with that as well.
If I just passed in some other object,
TypeScript is already
gonna save me from myself.
The interesting part, though, and
this is kind of a interesting thing about
TypeScript, if I just took this object,
right, so right now we're saying
the initial state is a PizzaState.
But what happens if I just took
the object and passed it in, all right?
TypeScript's happy with that.
I never said that this
object was a PizzaState.
But TypeScript figured out like,
you never said it, but it's true, right?
I can tell that this conforms to the idea
of a PizzaState, and it will accept it.
Unlike some other types systems,
TypeScript does not insist that you
declare absolutely everything because
that's fundamentally incompatible
with the way JavaScript works.
It uses structural typing set,
which is, yeah, you didn't say this
was a PizzaState, but it is, right?
I can figure that out for you.
I will accept this.
This is totally fine, and
it totally works for us.
Right, let me put it back in initial
state, then we are good to go.
But we still need to deal with
the fact that we don't have this
concept of a pizza action.
Let me go ahead and
pop that in as a PizzaState as well.
So now, the calculator is
simply that pizza's down here.
Okay, so this idea of a pizza action,
let's actually go ahead and define this.
A lot of times what you'll see people
do is, because you can easily mess up,
in fact, the one I first somehow can't
spell the word number a lot of times, so
I'll forget the letter B.
This is happened to me more
times than I want to admit.
So a lot of times what people do
is they'll say something like,
And this is sort of try to protect you
from yourself in JavaScript, right?
This way if you misspell it,
now it's an error,
if we replace this with a constant so
on and so forth, then you misspelled it,
there'll be like there is no
constant called numero of people.
With TypeScript,
we don't need to worry about that cuz
the type system is going to help us.
So let's make a pizza action.
We'll make a pizza action and
it is going to be of the type.
Well have update number of people,
let's just do a little copy paste action.
Or it's gonna be UPDATE_SLICES_PER_PERSON.
Or it's going to be UPDATE_SLICES_PER_PIE,
right?
It's either gonna be one
of these three things or,
We're not gonna be okay with this, right?
And then finally, it's gonna
take some kind of payload, Which
should be a number since
we're doing math with it.
Right, now we will say
that the action that we're
expecting should be a pizza action.
And what's cool about this is
now if I misspell something,
TypeScript will catch it.
There's no world that
this should be allowed,
here are the types that
you said were okay.
That is currently not the case.
And it's kinda catching us before
we have to figure out like,
I dispatched the action, nothing happened
cuz it fell through that condition all
the way down to return state.
And that's not cool.
The other interesting thing is
that let's say hypothetically I
removed these two for a second, right?
That kinda changes the way this works,
cuz now I can return PizzaState or
undefined, right?
We can kind of see that as well, and
useReducer here is now angry with me.
It's like no, no, no, no, no, the way this
works, is I need to get back the state.
So it'll begin to catch some those
edge cases if you haven't covered.
We've got this fallback where
it'll always return the state.
But it will begin to save me from
myself in some cases, and again,
catch those little things
that as we're writing code,
we're trying to think about the problem,
we're not totally aware of, all right.
So we need to know how to type this.
Now, it's not a pizza action,
cuz it's the dispatch function.
But is it just like react.dispatch, right?
Is that it, right?
Well no, that's not it.
So we gotta think about this for a second.
Again, the skills that I
wanna teach you is the tools.
So if we look,
we can see that dispatch is a function
that will dispatch pizza actions, right?
Why, because it knows that
the reducer only takes
actions of the type PizzaAction.
TypeScript has figured all of this out for
us.
So now we know exactly what the type is,
we can go ahead and
steal that for ourselves.
We're gonna dispatch, PizzaAction, right?
And now we've got a new problem, and
this is a problem that we've seen before
that TypeScript just figured out for
us, which is these payloads all have
red squiggly lines under them now.
And the reason they have red
squiggly lines is because
the payload is expecting that
the payload is a number.
Again, it's a problem we had before,
which is number fields make strings.
And we're good to go, right?
And now we've added some type safety here.
Again, we can't misspell a action now,
right?
We know that it's gonna
basically run through, again,
this is a small application.
In a larger application, it's gonna
still run through everything and
make sure that we haven't made any of
these tiny little errors that can sneak up
as the complexity of application grows.
And yeah,
if we misspell anything along these lines,
if any of the wrong data is there,
even if we misspell what we dispatch,
a lot of times you'll see in applications
we'll use action creators, and
action creators is still
probably a pretty good idea.
But even if I misspelled any of
the action types here as well,
it'll catch it immediately.
I don't have to wonder when I go to run
my tests or anything along those lines.
One of the interesting things about
TypeScript to think about is how many
unit tests were you writing that
we're just catching weird edge cases?
The type system can effectively
try to catch for you.
That's not to say that you don't
need to test, but it does mean that
there's a class of things that you
don't need to test for anymore.
So my argument would be some of
the extra work that involves in
having a TypeScript
application might be helpful,
there are things that are gonna
save you some work other places.
So one of the questions, and
we'll actually get to this after
the exercise a little bit, but
I'll answer it now as well, is what
happens if there are different payloads?
In this case, let's say it
should be a number or a string.
Or let's say my payload
was a simple thing,
it could be something like,
the value should be a number and
the, I'm having a hard time live
imagining what another thing
the payload might need is location,
I don't know, as a string.
And then you wanna have, or possibly just,
you could have other data types in here
as well, so you can kinda define that.
And we'll actually see a trick after the
next exercise of how to get a little bit
more interesting around this.
But you can basically kinda define
the shape, or you could have two different
kinds of actions be like, it takes either
PizzaAction or something, where it's
got a very similar shape and say like,
now this is this, or other action, right?
So you can have a few different action
shapes, we'll actually see that a little
bit more after we do our next exercise and
then we'll be able to rock and roll.
So the question is,
it seems like because TypeScript is so
ingrained in every piece of data, it
changes the shape of every piece of data,
could create a snowball effect.
Have you encountered this or
is it not a problem?
Well, the interesting part is our data is
deeply ingrained into our applications.
So prior to TypeScript, you might
change the shape of your data and
then hope that you had enough
test coverage to track down all
the places where it was important.
One of the things that we're gonna see
later in this course is how we can be
a little bit more flexible with our types,
we kinda saw that with the PizzaState.
It was based off of the PizzaData, right?
And so PizzaData changes when
PizzaState changes along with it.
Well, a lot of times many of
our applications, the data, and
especially in larger application,
is tightly ingrained with our application.
And we hope that when we update it,
that we've tracked it down and
found everywhere.
TypeScript will at least
make it very obvious and
give you red squiggly lines all over
the place where that has happened.
So yeah, a lot of that is is depending
on the context and stuff like that,
but generally speaking, I think that
TypeScript aids in the debugging, and
it gives you in the same way unit tests
give you more confidence that that change
you made didn't have
unintended consequences.
I think that the type system in TypeScript
also gives you the confidence of yes,
things broke,
maybe that's a good thing, right.
But yeah, so I think that yes, it can
get a lot unwieldy, it can snowball.
But I would argue that the problem with
snowballing, before you had TypeScript
in there, you just had to do
more work to assess it all out.